Stephanie Saldana: When Santa Lived Next Door in Jerusalem
Nicholas was already famous as a miracle worker by the time he arrived on our street in the Holy Land.

By STEPHANIE SALDANA
Dec. 23, 2013 7:18 p.m. ET
While millions of parents ready their children for Santa Claus's visit later this week, I get to tell my boys that he actually lived next door to our house.

We don't live in the North Pole, but in the Old City of Jerusalem, where last spring my husband discovered a small stone house for rent in the Christian Quarter. When we first moved in, I was surprised to see Christian pilgrims climbing the stairs in the courtyard in front of our house and disappearing above us. Soon I discovered that, hidden among the other houses, was the ancient Greek Orthodox monastery of St. Nicholas.

While walking my two sons to school recently, we encountered the Superior of the monastery, Fr. Aristovoulos, and introduced ourselves.

"Why is it named the monastery of St. Nicholas?" I asked. He looked at my two boys and smiled. "It's because St. Nicholas came to the Holy Land as a pilgrim and stayed in the monastery for a year." My 5-year-old son's face lit up. "You mean Santa Claus?" he asked. "The original Santa Claus," Fr. Aristovoulos answered.


The entryway to the church of St. Nicholas. Stephanie Saldana

Little concrete is known about the historical St. Nicholas, who tradition says was a bishop in 4th-century Myra, what is now the southern coast of Turkey. All of the legends associated with his life agree that he was a miracle worker—a man known for helping the poor, widows and sailors.

According to Jerusalem tradition, after Nicholas traveled as a bishop to the Council of Nicaea in 325, he continued on to Jerusalem to visit the holy sites associated with the life of Jesus. Fr. Aristovoulos says that it was on his way here that he performed his first miracle. During his voyage across the Mediterranean he foresaw a storm, and he warned the captain and the sailors that their ship would capsize. So Nicholas prayed, calming the sea and saving their lives. Other legends say that he later brought a sailor who died back to life.

According to Fr. Aristovoulos, by the time Nicholas arrived at the house next door to ours, he was already famous. "When he arrived in the port of Jaffa, they spread the word that they had a saintly man, and locals and pilgrims started to ask for St. Nicholas to help them."

Today, a beautiful stone church marks the place where tradition says he remained for a year, staying with a local family. A second church in the nearby village of Beit Jala commemorates that he slept there. The Jerusalem church is decorated with icons of St. Nicholas, easily recognizable with his white hair and long beard. And on his feast day in December, the church fills with Russian, Greek and Palestinian Christians, lighting candles and paying homage to the saint famous for giving gifts.

"But these are not gifts like giving toys to children," Fr. Aristovoulos insists. "He gave lifesaving gifts."

In the most famous story associated with St. Nicholas, he learned about a poor, widowed man who had three daughters. Having acquired many debts, the father decided to sell his oldest daughter into prostitution. When Nicholas heard, he came in the middle of the night and dropped enough coins in the window to pay off the debt. "He takes a handkerchief, maybe a sock, and he puts in 300 gold coins, and he throws it in the open window one night. And that's enough money for the father to have a dowry to marry off daughter number one," James Skedros, Professor of Byzantine Studies and Early Christianity at Hellenic CollegeHoly Cross, recounts the story he grew up on.

The daughter, now rescued, is married. Later, the man falls into debt again and contemplates selling his second daughter into prostitution. Again, Nicholas drops enough coins through the window. When the man decides to sell off his third daughter, he stays outside waiting to see who will save her. Perhaps this is the origin of the popular legend of a saint who knows everything, even "when you're sleeping," and "when you're awake."

For Mr. Skedros, despite the little we know of the Nicholas biography, it is the miracles that matter most. "What's interesting is that here is a Christian bishop in southeastern Asia Minor who's not a martyr and who didn't write anything," he said. "I think what really plays to his favor is that he gets associated with these wonderful miracles. In fact the Byzantine tradition calls him Miracle Worker."

This season, as I've thought of the stories of St. Nicholas, I've been reminded of the miracle of kindness—what some might say is a lifesaving gift. It does feel a bit like a season of miracles in Jerusalem. There's still snow on the ground from the city's largest snowfall in decades. This Christmas Eve, I'll go with my family to Bethlehem, like we do every year. As we approach the city, I'll choose the brightest star in the sky and tell my two sons that we're following it to the place where Jesus was born more than 2,000 years ago. On the way, we'll pass the hospital where my son was born nearly six years ago, a reminder that miracles don't just belong in the past.

Then we'll return home, and I'll tuck my boys into bed, and we'll all wait for St. Nicholas to come. If the neighbors are right, he shouldn't have any problem finding our house.

Ms. Saldana is the author of "The Bread of Angels" (Doubleday, 2010).

Copyright 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit
www.djreprints.com

The Wall Street Journal
Delhi Policewoman Finds Tradition Mightier Than The Badge
Enforcing Women's Rights at Work, Cop Faces Age-Old Home Battlefront
By TRIPTI LAHIRI and PREETIKA RANA CONNECT

Indian policewoman Preeti Dhaka committed suicide, allegedly provoked by abuse from her husband. Her situation suggests many women are reluctant to ask for help despite India's push to reduce domestic and sexual violence. WSJ's Tripti Lahiri reports. Photo: Courtesy of the Dhaka family.

NEW DELHI—Policewoman Preeti Dhaka had been married nearly a month when she returned to a city pulsing with crowds of angry women last December protesting the brutal gang rape of a student on a bus.

[image]
Dhaka family
Preeti Dhaka at 2011 graduation

Ms. Dhaka's regular beat was to protect women from crimes, and her heart was with the demonstrators her bosses sent her to restrain. "So many people are out here for her," Ms. Dhaka told her sister, referring to the rape victim. "She should get justice."

But Ms. Dhaka's training as one of the capital's nearly 1,000 female investigators couldn't insulate her from Indian traditions that often conspire against laws meant to enforce women's rights. After a day of protest duty on New Year's Eve, she wrote a despairing note: Her new husband, unhappy that her dowry hadn't included a car, "tried to motivate me to die."

The 25-year-old junior inspector was part of the Delhi police department's strategy of building a bigger corps of policewomen. She graduated from Delhi's police academy in 2011 in its largest-ever class of female investigators.

Ms. Dhaka and her 67 female classmates fanned out into city precincts to provide a more welcoming reception in police stations for women. In her first year, she pursued rapists, harassers and a man who tried forcing his teenage wife into prostitution.

But her police colleagues say she didn't report to them about the mounting pressure she felt from her husband, even though harassing women over dowries is illegal in India. When her sister found the New Year's Eve note, Ms. Dhaka told her she felt better after penning her concerns and that "there's no need to worry," her sister says.

A lawyer for Ms. Dhaka's husband says the note's allegations are false.

Delhi's Women Investigators

The female graduates of the Delhi police academy's class of 2011 have been thrust onto the frontlines of India's struggle to curb violence against women, enforcing the law in an area once governed by family and tradition.


image
Hindustan Times via Getty Images
Delhi deployed policewomen to protests over a Dec. 16 gang rape.

The Dec. 16, 2012, gang rape in Delhi drew international attention for its brutality. Six assailants in a bus raped and tortured a student, who died of her injuries several weeks later. The rape triggered national introspection about violence against women in India. Much of the official response has focused on strengthening legal codes and improving law enforcement.

But tradition is hard even for some policewomen to defy, says Ajay Chaudhry, a police official who was once Ms. Dhaka's superior. Society sends the message that "you have to behave in a particular manner, you must respect the family into which you are going," he says. "Only your dead body should come out of the house in which you have been married."

One reason Ms. Dhaka joined the police was to protect women. As a child, her sister and mother say, she didn't put up with bullying from boys. "Other girls in her class would get scared if a boy looked at them," says her sister. "She wasn't like that."

Ms. Dhaka arrived at Delhi's Police Training College in December 2010 as the city faced growing reports of gang rapes. The Delhi police department declared it urgently needed to bring female officers into rape investigations as early as possible and determined to increase hiring of women.

Ms. Dhaka's incoming class included women like Pooja Saraswat, who once planned to be a banker. After years of watching boys harass students in the women's train compartment with no police intervention, says Ms. Saraswat, 27, she decided to become a cop.

Cadets assembled daily at 6 a.m. on the parade grounds for calisthenics before classes on detective work, self-defense and marksmanship. They learned to use the lathi, a bamboo staff, for crowd control.

Earlier Coverage: A Rape That Shocked the World

The WSJ profiles the victims and the accused in last year's death in New Delhi, and examines the deep-seated problem of harassment of women in India.

A selection:

"False promise" complaints , refer to a growing trend of rape cases brought against men who promise marriage in hopes of persuading a woman to agree to sex. (11/29/2013)
For the wife of one of the convicted rapists , the misfortune to be married to a convict is not extraordinary: Her basic difficulties are a way of life in the Indian countryside. (9/23/2013)
The court "cannot turn a blind eye toward such gruesome crime," the judge says, in levying the death penalty. (9/13/2013)
Some conservative quarters of society push back against change, even as four men are convicted. (9/11/2013)
To wed your rapist, or not? Sexism pervades the Indian legal system, a WSJ examination shows. (5/17/2013)
Sharp finger nails for defense: Women describe running a gauntlet of harassment in their daily lives. (9/27/2013)
The victim's close friend describes the young couple's complex love story. (1/30/2013)
The bus helper with a singsong voice: New details emerge about the accused and their alleged intentions the evening of the attack. (1/10/2013)
"Wake up, wake up," she urged her friend. How the fateful day began. (1/9/2013)
Victim's body is flown home as grief and outrage sweep India and the world. (12/30/2012)
Female students say there were reminders that they weren't on equal footing with the male cadets, who trained separately. "You are girls, and you keep your rooms so dirty? How will you keep a clean home?" a woman officer scolded them in their dormitory, says one of Ms. Dhaka's classmates. A former male cadet says men were never bothered about their dorm rooms.

Ms. Dhaka's class studied the legalities of crimes against women. Police need to understand "what is the technical meaning of intercourse, the technical meaning of rape, when it is not rape, when it is attempt to rape, when it is outraging the modesty of a woman," says Upma Gautam, a law professor who taught the cadets.

The women were often uneasy with discussions of topics that, for most, weren't discussed at home, she says. "They come from a society which is very male-dominated."

In December 2011, Ms. Dhaka graduated 135th out of 342 cadets. Delhi police assigned her to a year's field training as a sub-inspector in the nearly 80,000-strong Delhi police force.

In her southeast-Delhi precinct, the concrete-block station house was near elevated train tracks between a posh private hospital and a slum. Her partner was a veteran detective, Josepha Kujur. The women took on nearly every complaint that came in to the station involving crimes against women.

Ms. Kujur, 42, says she counseled Ms. Dhaka to be sensitive to women's fears for their reputations and to be meticulous in gathering evidence—lack of which often stymies rape and other violence cases. "You have to take a stand, you have to be bold" to defend women's rights, she told her understudy.


One year after the fatal gang rape of a 23-year-old student on a bus in Delhi, women in India are showing a greater willingness to report abuse. The WSJ's Deborah Kan speaks with Joanna Sugden about the change in attitude.

Back home, Ms. Dhaka's future was taking shape more traditionally. In February 2012, her mother began marriage talks on her behalf with a family that had a son, Sunil Mund, a Border Security Force officer.

They were engaged in April. The two were soon talking by phone regularly, Ms. Dhaka's colleagues say.

That spring, Ms. Dhaka was busy helping with rape, kidnapping and other investigations, records from her station show. In one case, she searched for a 15-year-old girl whose parents said she had been abducted by a man. "After she arrested him, she was so proud," her sister says. "She felt like she could make a difference."

But she found the couple was dating, something the girl's parents couldn't accept. Women's groups say many parents use the police to try to break up teen romances.

In other precincts, Ms. Dhaka's 2011 classmates have faced cases of types that have dogged India for decades. Neetu Insan, 28, says she has dealt with many dowry complaints at her outer-Delhi station, which had no female inspector until she arrived.

Pressuring a bride or her family for wedding gifts is against a 1961 law passed in an effort to end dowry abuses. The dowry tradition persists, with a woman's family often giving lavish gifts to her fiancé's family.

Dowry disputes remain a prevalent cause of violence against women, usually by husbands or in-laws who think a dowry was too small. According to government crime statistics, nearly one woman was killed every hour in India last year over dowries. In Delhi, "dowry comes a lot" in police complaints by women, says Ms. Insan. "In the village, the girls don't come forward. They prefer to protect the home."

Another classmate, Ms. Saraswat, says she has learned she must consider the fear of stigma. When she visited the parents of one woman who filed a rape complaint, the mother asked fearfully: "You haven't told anyone why you're here have you? No one around here knows. It would be very shameful." Less than 10 minutes later, a local woman appeared in the doorway and asked, "Why are the police here?"

Others have encountered lack of respect from male suspects. "That's one of our biggest challenges," says Vandana Nimola, 25, a sub-inspector in northeast Delhi. "We have to be rough and tough," she says. "Otherwise we don't get taken seriously."

In June, Ms. Dhaka got the case of a teenage woman who complained that a male friend had drugged and raped her. He threatened to tell her family if she didn't marry him, according to the police complaint. After they wed, the husband pressured her to sleep with another man to make money for his family.

Ms. Dhaka arrested the man, his parents and uncle.

At that time, she was also facing pressure from her future husband, Mr. Mund, who wanted her to visit him in Rajasthan state as he prepared for a civil-service exam, she told her sister. Ms. Dhaka resisted, but finally agreed to stay in a hotel with him, her sister says.

About a month before the wedding, Mr. Mund told Ms. Dhaka that his colleagues were getting cars and apartments as dowries and that he wanted similar gifts, she told her mother. Her mother says Mr. Mund one day phoned her, too, saying he wanted a car.

A widowed schoolteacher, the elder Ms. Dhaka says she made it clear that she was providing household furniture, a refrigerator and a flat-screen TV for the couple. Ms. Dhaka's mother says he later phoned and apologized.

Mr. Mund's lawyer, Nitin Gandhi, says "there was no question of any dowry" and declines to comment on other matters about the couple.

Ms. Dhaka married Mr. Mund in November.

She returned in late December to a capital inflamed by protests over the Dec. 16 gang rape. Televised images of policemen wrangling women protesters in the initial days had spurred further outrage.

Police commanders deployed women officers, including Ms. Dhaka, to help calm female demonstrators, many of whom saw the rape case as a tipping point, emblematic of the daily harassment they faced.

On Dec. 31, she wrote the note her sister found, which was viewed by The Wall Street Journal. She wrote that after the wedding, Mr. Mund had told her: "If you were not in the world I wouldn't be sad at all. Why can't you take a step like that so that I can be free of you and marry again?" She wrote that his sister had also asked her for more dowry and that his mother was turning Mr. Mund against her.

In early January, Ms. Dhaka took leave to visit Mr. Mund, who was training in Gujarat state.

On Jan. 12, her body was discovered hanging by a scarf from a ceiling fan in her husband's quarters, according to a police report.

[image]
Police charged Mr. Mund, his mother and his sister with harassing Ms. Dhaka into killing herself and inflicting cruelty on her. They are awaiting trial. Approached at a pretrial hearing in June, Mr. Mund said he is innocent and didn't know what prompted the suicide. "Everything was going well," he said. His mother and sister in June interviews denied wrongdoing.

Ms. Dhaka's family gave her note to the police. A police official familiar with the death investigation says experts determined the handwriting is hers.

In a format reading like a legal affidavit, she began: "I Preeti Kumari Dhaka…in full cognizance, write…" She went on that Mr. Mund pressed to get a car and house from her family, saying: "If you won't give me all this, then I will shame you and I'll make it so you won't be able to show your face anywhere and I'll kill your family."

She wrote that he used trips they took together before marriage to threaten to discredit her. "I was afraid my mother and I would be shamed in front of the whole community so I couldn't do anything," she wrote.

Mr. Mund's lawyer, Mr. Gandhi, who also represents his mother and sister, declines to comment other than to say that the note's allegations are "totally false."

A lawyer who previously represented Mr. Mund's family said in June that Mr. Mund didn't suggest Ms. Dhaka kill herself, didn't threaten to shame or kill her family and didn't insist on a car and house. "They were very much in love," he said, showing photos of the couple hugging.

A year after the gang rape, the Delhi police say stressing enforcement and deploying more policewomen has helped encourage women to report crimes. The city recorded almost 1,500 reported rapes in 2013 through November, according to official data, more than twice the number in the same period last year. And compared with the same period in 2012, reports of sexual harassment jumped fivefold. The police department says it expects to have added 1,600 female officers by 2015.

Still, police and women's-rights activists say such crimes remain vastly underreported.

In August, men stopped a policewoman driving in Jharkhand state and gang-raped her. Police only discovered the crime while investigating a robbery by the same assailants.

"Just like any other woman, she has also that tendency not to report things because it may go against her," says Michael S. Raj, the police officer in charge of the district. "She may not be accepted in the family."

Ms. Dhaka's mother still struggles with her daughter's death. "I didn't teach my daughters to bear things," she says. "Why did she take it?"

Write to Tripti Lahiri at tripti.lahiri@wsj.com and Preetika Rana at preetika.rana@wsj.com

A version of this article appeared December 16, 2013, on page A1 in the U.S. edition of The Wall Street Journal, with the headline: The Silent Suffering of a Cop Who Fought for India's Women.


Turkey Premier Under Pressure as 3 Cabinet Ministers Resign
Prime Minister Erdogan Condemns Corruption Probe

By EMRE PEKER
Updated Dec. 25, 2013 2:21 p.m. ET
ISTANBUL—Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's decadelong grip on power suffered a blow Wednesday after an old ally quit the cabinet and called for him to resign, in the latest fallout from a corruption case that has rocked the country and roiled markets.

The public chastising of Mr. Erdogan by a member of his own Justice and Development Party, or AKP, is unprecedented. It came after the premier, who had been resisting pressure for a cabinet shuffle for a week, had pushed Erdogan Bayraktar and two other ministers to resign.

The economy and interior ministers, whose sons have been detained as part of the investigation, left first, echoing the prime minister's characterization of the corruption probe as a "dirty plot" against Turkey.

Mr. Bayraktar, who was in charge of the environment and urban planning, and whose son has been questioned in the probe, quit hours later but refused to tow the party line.

"I don't accept being pressured and told: 'Resign because of an operation involving bribery and corruption, and publish a declaration that will relieve' [the premier]," Mr. Bayraktar said, according to his office.

"To soothe the nation, I believe that the prime minister should resign, too," he said.

He has denied wrongdoing. The three ministers' sons have not commented.

Such an uncharacteristic upheaval in the governing party illustrates the mounting challenges to Mr. Erdogan as he seeks to consolidate power before a critical election cycle that starts in March and ends June 2015.

The prime minister, known for protecting his allies and not yielding to outside pressures over a decade in office, hasn't commented on the resignations. His spokesman didn't return calls for comment.

"The resignations are a big step back for Erdogan, it creates the impression that he is losing control of his cabinet," said Atilla Yesilada, an Istanbul-based analyst at risk consultancy Global Source Partners.

"Forced to act, Erdogan tried to get rid of his burdens," he said. "But this is a political crisis and it is hard to tell how it will unfold, these investigations may expand in coming months."

Turkish markets, which had rallied after the first two resignations, fell sharply when Mr. Bayraktar called on the prime minister to quit. Speaking to party members in Ankara, Mr. Erdogan said that the AKP won't bow to what he has called an international smear operation.

"We act according to the laws, and we will continue to do so. We will clean up possible rotten parts…If some small dark spot has emerged on our record and draws attention, it is only because our record is so clean white," Mr. Erdogan said, adding that he won't accept any accusation against his government until the investigation has concluded.

Prosecutors, who unveiled a wide-ranging corruption investigation Dec. 17, have said they plan to charge at least 24 jailed suspects with bribery, money laundering, gold smuggling and other misdeeds.

The other ministers who quit echoed Mr. Erdogan's allegations that the probe was politically motivated.

"It is very clear that the operation performed as of Dec. 17 is a dirty setup against our government, our party and our country. I have resigned from my post of economy minister to help bring out the truth and spoil this ugly game, which has included my child and my close colleagues," Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said in a written statement. His spokesman declined further comment.

Interior Minister Muammer Guler resigned minutes later. "I had asked the prime minister to dismiss me [Dec. 17] and submitted my written resignation today," he said in an emailed statement that echoed Mr. Caglayan's.

After Mr. Bayraktar's comments, Turkey's benchmark BIST-100 stock index reversed gains, falling 4.2% to 66096.5 by market's close. The lira declined 0.5% to 2.0876 against the dollar, creeping toward its record low. The government's borrowing costs rose as its benchmark two-year bond yields pared gains to 9.56% from 9.42%, after closing at 9.68% Tuesday. Bond yields decline as prices rise.

"With the two ministers' resignations in the morning, the lira gained because the market saw it as a positive step that would reduce prevailing political uncertainties. But the third minister's resignation, and call on the prime minister to step down, deteriorated investor sentiment," said Gokce Celik, an economist at Finansbank in Istanbul. "Turkey's lira has been under extra pressure recently due to domestic political uncertainties. it is going to be difficult for it to stabilize as the year draws to an end."

—Ayla Albayrak, Kerim Karakaya and Yeliz Candemir contributed to this article.

Write to Emre Peker at emre.peker@wsj.com

Greece Struggles to Outlaw Its Golden Dawn Fascist Party
Conservative Government Mounts Risky Effort to Declare Group a Criminal Organization

By MARCUS WALKER and MARIANNA KAKAOUNAKI
Updated Dec. 4, 2013 11:37 p.m. ET

PIRAEUS, Greece—At a dark crossroads here in September, Greek police kept a safe distance while black-clad activists from the fascist movement Golden Dawn chased and attacked Pavlos Fyssas, a 34-year-old rapper.

The police had long been in the habit of standing by while Golden Dawn's paramilitary squads rolled into action, mirroring the hesitance of Greece's political leadership to deal with the growing movement's muscle. Only after a Golden Dawn member fatally stabbed the rapper did police officers make an arrest, according to 15 police and witness depositions.

The arrest was the start of a risky crackdown on a party steeped in street violence and neo-Nazi rhetoric, whose surging support since last year symbolizes how Europe's economic crisis has fueled the Continent's most radical forces. From Spain to Finland, extremes of left and right, regional separatists and antiestablishment populists are on the march. Golden Dawn, once a fringe group known for stiff-arm salutes and Holocaust denial, rose to nearly 15% support in opinion polls by this fall.

Violence in Greece hasn't come only from the far right. On Nov. 1, two men on a stolen motorcycle stopped at a Golden Dawn branch in an Athens suburb and shot two party activists dead. An extreme-left group took responsibility, saying it was revenge for the killing of Mr. Fyssas.

The Golden Dawn crackdown the government is attempting takes the form of an effort to prove it is a "criminal organization" in which membership is a crime, a charge the party denies.


Golden Dawn was initially cowed by the move against it but is starting to regain its swagger. On Saturday, thousands of party activists held a defiant rally in Athens' Constitution Square, waving a forest of flags and denouncing the prosecution as persecution. Opinion polls published in recent days suggest that the party's public support, which fell after the rapper's killing, has stabilized and may be rising again.

Legal experts say proving the speedily assembled case will be hard. Many observers say that if the prosecution fails, the radical party could hit new heights of popularity.

Golden Dawn says the effort is a conspiracy against it, led by "the European Commission, the U.S. government and the Israeli lobby," in the words of party spokesman Ilias Kasidiaris, a lawmaker who has a swastika tattoo on his shoulder. Mr. Kasidiaris said Golden Dawn wasn't responsible for the rapper's killing.

For most of its 30-year history, Golden Dawn was a small sect of Hitler enthusiasts. Its founder and leader today, Nikos Michaloliakos, was an army commando who praised the Third Reich and Greece's former military junta. The party won a skimpy 0.3% of the national vote in 2009 elections, on the eve of Greece's economic meltdown.

When the crisis began, street violence came mainly from far-left anarchists. The gathering depression shifted the balance of violence. Human-rights groups began documenting scores of attacks on the immigrants who flood into Greece from poor or war-torn lands such as Afghanistan and Pakistan. Often the attackers were black-clad gangs patrolling cities with clubs and knives.

In 2012 elections, Golden Dawn, which vowed to "clean" Greece of immigrants, shocked many Greeks by winning 7% of the national tally, as numerous voters abandoned mainstream parties. Greece's conservative party, New Democracy, held on to just enough support to head a new government, led by Prime Minister Antonis Samaras.

Interviews with investigators and politicians, as well as members and alleged victims of Golden Dawn, show how the authorities hesitated to respond to the party's growing violence, amid fears for their voter base.


Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras has pushed to arrest Golden Dawn leaders such as Nikos Michaloliakos and Yiannis Lagos. Getty Images


Yiannis Lagos, center. Associated Press


Nikos Michaloliakos Agence France-Presse/Getty Images

An important factor, say some officials and analysts, was the prime minister's split political personality. Mr. Samaras was reared by a liberal mother from Athens' commercial aristocracy and a right-wing father from a poor anti-Communist village. His career has swung between fiery nationalist rhetoric and statesmanlike sobriety.

Mr. Samaras loathed neo-Nazis. His great-grandmother Penelope Delta, a patriotic children's author, committed suicide in 1941 on the day when invading Germans raised the swastika over the Acropolis.

But his base was a faction on New Democracy's right wing, which grew alarmed as supporters drifted into Golden Dawn's arms. To win them back, some of his advisers argued, New Democracy needed to shun any antifascist drive and show it was the true home for voters who favored clamping down on immigration and unruly left-wing protests.

Mr. Samaras's rhetoric for the elections held last year called for inner cities to be "reclaimed" from immigrant "tyrants," who he said brought "many diseases."

Critics charged he was emboldening the far right's xenophobia. At a June 2012 rally in the port city of Piraeus, a senior Golden Dawn official denounced immigrant fishermen from Egypt. "From now on they will answer to Golden Dawn," he said to raucous cheers.

That night at 3 a.m., a gang approached a house occupied by Egyptian fishermen. "Come out and let us show you what Golden Dawn means," one man shouted, according to Egyptian brothers Ahmed and Saad Abou Hamed, occupants of the house who have lived and worked in Greece since the 1990s.

The attackers caught one fisherman, Abou Zeid Mubarak, and beat him so badly he had to eat with a straw for months, the other fishermen said. Six suspects later arrested included a local Golden Dawn leader. Their case hasn't yet come to trial.

Golden Dawn's conquest of 18 seats in parliament in the 2012 elections made probing the group legally and politically delicate. Investigators were reluctant to act without high-level political cover, senior law-enforcement officials said. For instance, the party leader who railed against Egyptian fishermen, Yiannis Lagos, had been under surveillance for suspected criminal activities, but the surveillance ended when he ran for election, the officials said. A lawyer for Mr. Lagos declined to comment.

Mr. Samaras, after winning the premiership in the 2012 elections, focused his law-and-order efforts on undocumented immigrants, Communist strikers and anarchist squatters. He believed Golden Dawn was a fashion that would fade when the economy stabilized, said people familiar with his thinking.

But racist violence rose sharply in the year after the elections, causing hundreds of injuries and several deaths. A recent report by a government ombudsman linked 71 incidents to Golden Dawn and 47 to police officers.

"We didn't pay too much attention to stabbings of immigrants, because they were not in the press, and prosecutors didn't pay enough attention" either, said a senior official of Mr. Samaras's party. "It was not a priority."

A year ago, the head of a human-rights advisory body, Kostis Papaioannou, presented its annual report to a close prime ministerial adviser, Takis Baltakos. Mr. Baltakos opened it at a chapter on racist violence and threw it on the table, saying, "We are not interested in the human rights of foreigners," according to Mr. Papaioannou.

Inside the premier's neoclassical mansion, Mr. Baltakos led opposition to proposals for attempting to criminalize Golden Dawn. He said that would backfire, winning the party sympathy from voters disgusted with the establishment and alienating conservative constituencies such as the army and church. Other aides agreed that confronting Golden Dawn was politically risky.

Buoyed by its seeming impunity, Golden Dawn overplayed its hand on Sept. 15, angering the prime minister.

The small town of Meligalas was holding its annual remembrance of a World War II atrocity in which Communist partisans massacred locals accused of Nazi collaboration. A paramilitary column of Golden Dawn activists marched in, with Mr. Kasidiaris barking "one-two, one-two!"

The town's conservative mayor started giving a speech, in which he suggested that left and right shared blame for the Greek civil war that followed German occupation.

A Golden Dawn member of parliament, Ilias Panagiotaros, erupted at this evenhandedness, grabbing the microphone, shouting and shoving elderly townspeople, a video of the event shows. Riot police sent to prevent trouble were stationed too far away to intervene. According to one officer, police commanders had told them to step in only if anarchists tried to fight the fascists.

Mr. Panagiotaros, asked about his behavior, said, "I got crazy. But some things can't be tolerated."

The prime minister's inner circle was divided on how to respond to the incident. Some aides wanted to ban parades by Golden Dawn. Mr. Baltakos warned against a move that would make its members look like martyrs. Mr. Samaras, angered by an incident that had occurred in his home district and humiliated a mayor from his own party, wanted to do something but was wary of taking steps that would appear politically motivated.

The night of Sept. 17 forced a decision.

Mr. Fyssas, who rapped against fascism, was watching a soccer match with friends in a cafe in Piraeus. Tensions arose with a group of Golden Dawn supporters, who phoned others for backup. The calls spread up the hierarchy, summoning around 30 activists armed with clubs, according to investigators and witnesses. As Mr. Fyssas tried to evade them, he was spotted and attacked.

His girlfriend pleaded for help from motorcycle police parked across the junction but they didn't intervene, she told investigators. Other witnesses testified that four of the officers approached the scene gingerly.

A Golden Dawn member, Giorgos Roupakias, then arrived by car and almost immediately plunged a knife into Mr. Fyssas's heart, according to police and witness testimony. Arrested after he got back into his car, Mr. Roupakias said he did it because Mr. Fyssas had hit his pals, according to the police. Mr. Roupakias later said he acted in self-defense. He faces murder charges.

Golden Dawn said that the fighting was unplanned, that Mr. Roupakias acted alone and that the phone calls to party leaders were unrelated.


The far-right party held a rally in Athens on Saturday. Agence France-Presse/Getty Images

"It was a murder, but Golden Dawn had nothing to do with it," said Mr. Kasidiaris. The party hierarchy can't be blamed for what followers might do, he said. "Golden Dawn is against violence."

Greece's minister of public order, Nikos Dendias, ordered raids on Golden Dawn offices. He also told aides to collect cases already in the judicial system that suggested Golden Dawn was a criminal organization, and asked the judiciary to bring a case against it.

Police mapped phone connections from the night of the killing. Prosecutors granted witness protection to some ex-members of Golden Dawn. Within days, a prosecutor indicted and arrested six Golden Dawn members of parliament and about 30 activists who were on the web of phone calls. The charge: belonging to a criminal gang.

When police came to the home of Mr. Michaloliakos, Golden Dawn's leader, he was awakened by his wife, who addressed him as "chieftain." In his home, police found guns, bullets and €43,000 ($58,000) in cash, as well as kitchen cutlery bearing the Third Reich emblem of an eagle on a swastika, according to a person familiar with the investigation. Mr. Michaloliakos didn't respond to requests for comment. He has rejected the charge of belonging to a criminal organization.

Prime Minister Samaras flew to the U.S. for a scheduled visit, satisfied that he could now say Greece was moving against the group. But on Oct. 2, a jet-lagged Mr. Samaras lay awake in the Hay-Adams Hotel in Washington when a 4 a.m. call from Mr. Dendias informed him that a judge had released three of the six arrested Golden Dawn lawmakers. What is more, skeptics within the government were trying to obstruct the case by lobbying judges to go slow, and telling conservative blogs that Mr. Samaras was blaming his ministers for giving him bad advice. The case seemed to be unraveling.

Still, the same judge who had released the three Golden Dawn legislators kept the other three in jail pending trial. On returning from the U.S., Mr. Samaras showed his support for Mr. Dendias, the public order minister, by walking with him from parliament to the prime minister's mansion.

To convict those arrested of belonging to a criminal organization, the state must show Golden Dawn to be a hierarchical group that intends to commit felonies. That requires proving its leaders ordered or "morally instigated" felonies.

The evidence so far probably isn't enough, legal experts say. For instance, the phone connections on the night of the rapper's murder are strong clues but don't prove an order to kill, some lawyers say. It isn't known what was said on the calls.

After the killing, the police began phone taps on Golden Dawn. Some calls suggest disorganization. In one exchange, Mr. Lagos chews out an underling who exaggerates the size of the victim's group to make the fight sound fairer. "Giorgos, tell me the truth so I don't f— you, because I'm going crazy here," Mr. Lagos says on the call, according to transcripts filed in court.

Claims by some protected witnesses don't check out. One said Golden Dawn had stashed guns at a monastery. Police found only laughing monks.

In addition, the list of judicial incidents sent to prosecutors shows signs of haste. Some cases are minor. One concerns an attack not by Golden Dawn but on it.

Many say Golden Dawn will be stronger than ever if the case against it comes undone. "Most of us will have to leave" Greece, said Saad Abou Hamed, the Egyptian fisherman.

Greece's government says it acted against Golden Dawn at the first legal opportunity. Mr. Abou Hamed, who hopes he will eventually be invited to testify against Golden Dawn in court, is skeptical: "Before, the attacks were on immigrants, so they just did not mind," he said. "Now that a Greek guy died, they care."

—Alkman Granitsas contributed to this article.

Write to Marcus Walker at marcus.walker@wsj.com

Raising Children With an Attitude of Gratitude
Research Finds Real Benefits for Kids Who Say 'Thank You'

By DIANA KAPP
Dec. 23, 2013 6:40 p.m. ET
Ben Gantert, 12, center, washes dishes near his father, Kurt Gantert, left, sister Amelie Gantert, 9, near right, and mother Gabrielle Toledano in San Francisco. The family assigns each child chores and makes sure to thank whoever cooks dinner. Laura Morton for The Wall Street Journal
At the Branstens' modern white dining table, the family holds hands for their nightly ritual.

Arielle, 8 years old, says she's thankful for her late grandfather, Horace, and how funny he was. "I'm missing him," she says. Her third-grade pal, over for dinner, chimes in, "I'm grateful for the sausages." Leela, who works for an education nonprofit, and her attorney husband Peter, burst into smiles. The San Francisco couple couldn't have scripted this better. Appreciation for things big and small—that's why they do this.

Giving thanks is no longer just holiday fare. A field of research on gratitude in kids is emerging, and early findings indicate parents' instincts to elevate the topic are spot-on. Concrete benefits come to kids who literally count their blessings.

Gratitude works like a muscle. Take time to recognize good fortune, and feelings of appreciation can increase. Even more, those who are less grateful gain the most from a concerted effort. "Gratitude treatments are most effective in those least grateful," says Eastern Washington University psychology professor Philip Watkins.

A field of research on gratitude in kids is emerging, and early findings show that kids who literally count their blessings show concrete benefits. Diana Kapp explains on Lunch Break. Photo: Getty Images.

Among a group of 122 elementary school kids taught a weeklong curriculum on concepts around giving, gratitude grew, according to a study due to be published in 2014 in School Psychology Review. The heightened thankfulness translated into action: 44% of the kids in the curriculum opted to write thank-you notes when given the choice following a PTA presentation. In the control group, 25% wrote notes.

"The old adage that virtues are caught, not taught, applies here," says University of California, Davis psychology professor Robert Emmons. Parents need to model this behavior to build their children's gratitude muscle. "It's not what parents want to hear, but you cannot give your kids something that you yourselves do not have," Dr. Emmons says.

This may seems obvious, but it eludes many parents, Dr. Watkins says. "I think the most important thing for us adults to realize is we're not very grateful either," he says.

The mere act of giving thanks has tangible benefits, research suggests. A 2008 study of 221 kids published in the Journal of School Psychology analyzed sixth- and seventh-graders assigned to list five things they were grateful for every day for two weeks. It found they had a better outlook on school and greater life satisfaction three weeks later, compared with kids assigned to list five hassles.


Another study examined 1,035 high-school students outside New York City. The study, published in 2010 in the Journal of Happiness Studies, found that those who showed high levels of gratitude, for instance thankfulness for the beauty of nature and strong appreciation of other people, reported having stronger GPAs, less depression and envy and a more positive outlook than less grateful teens.

Further, teens who strongly connected buying and owning things with success and happiness reported having lower GPAs, more depression and a more negative outlook. "Materialism had just the opposite effect as gratitude—almost like a mirror," says study co-author Jeffrey Froh, associate professor of psychology at Hofstra University.

Internet shopping has made acquisition so easy, the value of goods can be harder to recognize. "Today, if one of our boys needs a new pair of shoes, my wife goes on Zappos, picks out the color and size, and they show up the next day in a FedEx box. No wishing. No prioritizing. No desiring for something that is out of touch. Just click the button, and presto, the shoes arrive on our doorstep," says Willy Walker, who heads commercial real estate finance firm Walker and Dunlop in Bethesda, Md. "It drives me crazy."

He has reacted to this reality—so different from how he'd eye a pair of Pumas at the store for months before ever getting them as a kid—with determination to keep consumption modest where possible. So, he hasn't set up the Wii his kids received as a present. "They get plenty of video entertainment all over, so why not scale back at home?" he says.

When his son wanted a cellphone for his 11th birthday, Mr. Walker set out to "get the Pinto rather than the Cadillac." In this case, his resolve fell away when challenged by factors like ease and quality. "The Pintos didn't really limit access to texting or Web-browsing. They just did everything worse than the more expensive phones. So we got him an iPhone 4S. Ugh."

A 2013 study in Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin that tracked materialism in 355,000 high school seniors from 1976 to 2007 found that desire for lots of money has increased markedly since the mid-1970s, while willingness to work hard to earn it has decreased. Among kids surveyed, 62% thought it was important to have lots of money and nice things between 2005 and 2007, while 48% had this view from 1976 to 1978.


Kurt Gantert and Gabrielle Toledano post chores such as dishwashing and taking out the trash for their kids to do. Laura Morton for The Wall Street Journal

"This subject is huge for us," says Gabrielle Toledano, an executive vice president at videogame company Electronic Arts. She and her husband live in San Francisco with their 9-year-old, Amelie, and 12-year-old, Ben. Ms. Toledano, and her husband Kurt Gantert, a camp director and stay-home dad, are deliberate about finding everyday ways to remind their kids how good they've got it.

"We eat family dinner every night and thank Dad for making it," Ms. Toledano says. "We talk about how I work hard so we can have nice food. If the kids don't come to the table when we call them, I tell them it's rude, because someone has made an effort," she says.

The couple is committed to their kids' having part-time jobs when they are old enough. "They should work in the back office or the kitchen," Ms. Toledano says. "There are interesting, hardworking people there. You learn more about gratitude when you have friends who aren't as privileged as you are," she says.

Despite good intentions, some parents are struggling with how to stoke the giving fires in their children. "It's an uphill battle," says Andrea Rice, president of professional development coaching business CareerCore. Her kids are 12 and 9. "We both work, so the kids have an au pair. They are shuttled from A to B. They don't really struggle much. Because that's their reality, it doesn't matter how much you say, 'Appreciate this, appreciate that,' " Ms. Rice says.

Everyday actions may be even more important than big efforts, researchers say. "Express gratitude to your spouse. Thank your kids," Hofstra's Dr. Froh says. "Parents say, 'Why should I thank them for doing something they should do, like clean their room?' By reinforcing this, kids will internalize the idea, and do it on their own."

Still, Eastern Washington's Dr. Watkins cautions, "Don't shove it down their throats." His family gives thanks at Thanksgiving, but it's not a formal process. "Don't make this, 'It's your turn, so say something whether you feel it or not,' " he says.

UC Davis's Dr. Emmons believes gratitude is actually easier for kids. "As we get older, the give and take of life is driven by expectations around tit-for-tat reciprocity. Kids have a natural affinity to gratitude. They often teach parents as much or more about gratitude than the other way around."


NFL Christmas-Tree Power Rankings
After 16 Weeks It's Clear Which Teams Can Tackle—But Which Team Can Deck the Halls? The 'Office Tree' Poll

Updated Dec. 24, 2013 12:24 p.m. ET
The Kansas City Chiefs are playoff-bound, but no matter how the team performs in that arena, its fans can rest assured of one thing: Someone in the front office has an excellent eye for team-appropriate Christmas-tree ornamentation.

The Journal's NFL Christmas Tree Power Rankings
After 16 weeks of football, we know who the best teams are. The question is: who has the best tree?


Kansas City Chiefs
With the holiday season upon us—and the playoffs right round the corner—The Wall Street Journal contacted all 32 of the NFL's teams and asked them to send photos of the Christmas trees located at their facilities. All but three teams submitted entries. And since this is the NFL, there has to be a winner: Hence, our first-annual NFL Christmas-tree power rankings.

To compile these scores, eight members of our sports staff gathered to review these photos, which were taken by the teams. We graded each tree on several categories: size and shape, team-specific touches, location and general tastefulness (or lack thereof). Each panelist gave each team a score from one to 10 and the overall scores were averaged.

What did we learn? For the most part, the better the team, the better the tree. Among the top 12 tree teams, there were nine playoff (or potential playoff) teams. That said, the Patriots, Broncos, Colts and Packers weren't exactly lighting it up.

The most elaborate tree (by far) was housed in the NFL's most-expensive stadium: Jerry Jones's palace to all things Cowboys. But fancy trees are clearly not a Texas thing—the least impressive tree (a trio of shrubs, really) resided in Houston.

Cincinnati's modestly sized tree punched above its weight thanks to homey touches like pompon tinsel—and its impressive view of the field. Arizona scored well with our panel thanks to the giant lifelike bird perched on top of the tree (we didn't ask any questions). And San Francisco's tree stood out with ornaments in the shape of peace signs.

The Titans and Panthers seem to have given their trees a lot of thought—although maybe too much thought. Carolina's entry appears to have feathers. The Falcons and Buccaneers said they don't have trees; the Redskins declined to send a photo of their tree.

—Ryan Wallerson

Study: Eating Nuts in Pregnancy May Lower a Child's Allergy Risk
A Delay in Introducing Allergenic Foods Doesn't Prevent Allergies

By LINDSAY GELLMAN
Updated Dec. 23, 2013 6:06 p.m. ET
Pregnant women who eat more peanuts and tree nuts during pregnancy might be less likely to bear nut-allergic children, a new study suggests.

Pregnant women who eat more peanuts and tree nuts during pregnancy might be less likely to bear nut-allergic children, a new study suggests. Lindsay Gellman reports on Lunch Break.

The research, published Monday in the journal JAMA Pediatrics, supports the current consensus among medical professionals that delaying the introduction of nuts, milk, fish, shellfish, eggs and other highly allergenic foods in young children doesn't prevent the development of food allergies, said Michael C. Young, associate clinical professor of pediatrics at Harvard Medical School, and a senior author of the study.


The more nuts a mother ate during pregnancy, or a year before or after, the lower her child's nut-allergy risk. Getty Images

The findings inversely link a pregnant mother's consumption of peanuts or tree nuts with the onset of nut allergies in her child. The more nuts the mother ate while pregnant, or within a year before or after pregnancy, the lower the risk that the child would go on to develop nut allergies, Dr. Young said. The study doesn't demonstrate a causal relationship between a pregnant mother's diet and the onset of nut allergies in her offspring, he said.

The researchers stopped short of advising pregnant women to eat more nuts. Further, interventional studies—in which researchers would separate participating pregnant women into groups and prescribe their diets, rather than simply track their consumption—are required before they can make such a recommendation.

Researchers led by A. Lindsay Frazier of the Dana-Farber/Boston Children's Cancer and Blood Disorders Center in Boston, analyzed data from 8,205 children born between Jan. 1, 1990 and Dec. 31, 1994 to mothers who had reported their diets at or around the time of pregnancy. Of the children they tracked, 140 had developed a peanut or tree nut allergy by 2009. All self-reported cases of physician-diagnosed nut allergies were reviewed independently by two pediatricians, according to the study.


The prevalence of childhood peanut allergy in the U.S. has become an "epidemic" in recent years, Dr. Young said. The rate of 1.4% in 2010 is more than triple the rate of 0.4% in 1997, according to the study. Peanut and tree nut allergies tend to overlap, and such allergies typically become evident with a child's first known exposure to peanuts or tree nuts, the study said. It defines tree nuts as walnuts, almonds, pistachios, cashews, pecans, hazelnuts, macadamias and Brazil nuts.

Until recently, the American Academy of Pediatrics had recommended that young children avoid eating peanuts and tree nuts until at least age 3 and cautioned pregnant or nursing women against eating peanuts. In 2008, AAP did away with those guidelines after further studies showed little support for them. The new data support the AAP's move to rescind the recommendation, Dr. Young said. The research "supports the hypothesis that early allergen exposure increases the likelihood of tolerance and thereby lowers the risk of childhood food allergy," the study said.

Limitations of the study include that the dietary questionnaires weren't specific to the dates of the mothers' pregnancies. Only 45% of the questionnaires were completed during pregnancy, and 76% within one year.

In an editorial also published Monday in JAMA Pediatrics, Ruchi Gupta, associate professor of pediatrics at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, counseled pregnant mothers against avoiding nuts for fear of causing their children to develop nut allergies. "Certainly, women who are allergic to nuts should continue avoiding nuts," she added.

"Mothers-to-be should feel free to curb their cravings with a dollop of peanut butter!" Dr. Gupta wrote.


Are Cranberries a Better Way to Long Life?
Berries' Antioxidant Properties May Increase Longevity at Any Stage of Life
By ANN LUKITS
Updated Dec. 23, 2013 6:36 p.m. ET

Designer of the Popular Kalashnikov Rifle Dies
AK-47, Created by Mikhail Kalashnikov, Was Designed to 'Protect the Motherland' After World War II

By LUKAS I. ALPERT and STEPHEN MILLER
Updated Dec. 23, 2013 4:48 p.m. ET
Acclaimed a hero in the Soviet Union for creating the most popular assault rifle in history, Mikhail Kalashnikov was the namesake of the AK-47.


Mr. Kalashnikov in London launching a vodka drink in 2004 Associated Press

Mr. Kalashnikov died in Izhevsk on Monday at age 94, after a long illness, said Yelena Filatova, a spokeswoman for the gun's manufacturer, Kalashnikov Concern. She didn't give further details.

Mr. Kalashnikov said the automatic rifle was designed "to protect the motherland" after World War II. But the AK-47 and its descendants and knockoffs became mainstays for armies and guerrilla soldiers around the globe. Light, durable, cheap to manufacture and simple to maintain, the rifle creates a deadly spray of bullets without much of a kick.

The design of the Avtomat Kalashnikova—or Kalashnikov's automatic—spread widely after its rollout in 1949. It is estimated that 100 million have been produced.

Mr. Kalashnikov said he regretted that it became the weapon of choice for guerrilla armies. "It was like a genie out of the bottle, and it began to walk all on its own and in directions I did not want," he told Britain's Guardian newspaper in 2003. But he added, "I sleep soundly. The fact that people die because of an AK-47 is not because of the designer, but because of politics."

Mr. Kalashnikov's biography took on near-mythic proportions, propelled by a Communist media apparatus hungry for peasant heroes. He was the child of near-illiterate peasants, born in the remote region of Altai, where the family farmed, according to published reports.

But during Stalin's agricultural collectivization in 1930, his father was deemed a class enemy and the family lost its land. The father died soon after the family was deported to the Siberian region of Tomsk.

Short of stature and mechanically adept, Mr. Kalashnikov said he dreamed of becoming a poet. But as World War II got under way, he joined a tank brigade. Injured early in the war, he was assigned to a firearms lab.

Soviet engineers had developed a new, smaller gun cartridge, and after the war the Soviet Army declared a contest to design a gun to fire it. Working with a team, Mr. Kalashnikov created the winning design. He later married the project's draftswoman.

Mr. Kalashnikov became a national hero and subject of multiple biographies in Russian. He was twice named a Hero of Socialist Labor, one the U.S.S.R.'s highest honors, and in 2009 a Hero of the Russian Federation. He also served as a member of the Supreme Soviet, the U.S.S.R.'s rubber-stamp legislative body.

He continued to work into his 80s as the chief designer and a consultant at the arms factory in Izhevsk, Russia, where the AK-47 was first manufactured.

The rifle's use shows no signs of flagging. In the fall of 2013, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced that he had ordered an upgraded version of the AK-47.

"Blame the Nazi Germans for making me become a gun designer," Mr. Kalashnikov said in 2007 at an event marking the 60th anniversary of the gun.

Email remembrances@wsj.com