CROSSFIRE

What Will 2014 Battle Lines Be?

Aired December 23, 2013 - 18:28   ET

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.


(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ANNOUNCER: Tonight on CROSSFIRE, looking beyond the holidays.

REP. JOHN BOEHNER (R-OH), SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE: Are you kidding me?

ANNOUNCER: Where are the political battle lines for 2014?

REP. TED CRUZ (R), TEXAS: It's time to start over.

ANNOUNCER: Who should we keep our eyes on?

HILLARY CLINTON, FORMER SECRETARY OF THE STATE: What difference at this point does it make?

ANNOUNCER: And what will be the biggest issues?

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We anticipate there's still going to be challenges.

ANNOUNCER: On the left Marc Lamont Hill, on the right S.E. Cupp. In the CROSSFIRE, Neera Tanden, who worked for the Obama administration, and Will Cain, a conservative commentator, drawing the battle lines for 2014. Tonight on CROSSFIRE.

MARC LAMONT HILL, CO-HOST: Welcome to CROSSFIRE. I'm Marc Lamont Hill on the left.

S.E. CUPP, CO-HOST: I'm S.E. Cupp on the right. In the CROSSFIRE tonight, two guests on opposite sides of the 2014 battle lines.

Democrats are addicted to Obama. And the first step for any addict is admitting they have a problem. Obama's health-care law is riddled with it. Just today the administration put off another deadline to sign up, and according to new CNN polling, 63 percent of Americans think the Affordable Care Act will increase their health-care spending.

Here's Democrat Joe Manchin on CNN's "STATE OF THE UNION."

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. JOE MANCHIN (R), WEST VIRGINIA: If it's so much more expensive than what we anticipated, and if the coverage is not as good as what we've had, you've got a complete meltdown at that time.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CUPP: Also today we learned the president symbolically signed up for Obamacare, something he doesn't need and is yet still paying for. Must be nice.

Marc, not everyone can afford symbolism. And I think Democrats need to admit this is a real problem for them in 2014.

HILL: Are they already admitting that? Some of my best friends are Democrats, and I haven't -- I haven't met one yet that isn't in denial that this is bad: the Web site is bad, the sign-ups are bad, the delay is bad. But the truth is, we're going to turn a corner, and things are going to be fine.

CUPP: Nancy Pelosi says it's going to be a plus. We'll see.

In the CROSSFIRE tonight, Neera Tanden, who helped craft President Obama's health-care plan, and CNN political commentator Will Cain. Marc, as our guest host, I will give you the first question.

HILL: Good. I get to go right to Will Cain. Will, look --

WILL CAIN, CONSERVATIVE COMMENTATOR: Bring it.

HILL: I think you guys are overstating just a bit how bad things are. Over the last weekend, we've seen sign-ups. We've seen young people begin to sign up. We've seen millions of people access the site, and we've seen fewer glitches. What are you going to do when this thing actually starts working?

CAIN: OK. You think we've overstated. I don't think we've stated it far enough. So I'm going to give you this, Marc.

You said in 2014 that you were going to turn the corner. What I'm going to accuse you of is what you've been talking about with Republicans being accused of for the past several years: wishful thinking. You've said we've hoped for Obamacare's failure. You're now on the side of hope and wishfulness. What you'll see in 2014 -- here's your overstatement -- is the effective nationalization of the health-care industry.

To some extent what I'm saying is anticlimactic. You've got the government dictating the prices of health care, the coverage. And in 2014, what we're going to see is the full-on nationalization. It's a mechanism -- and I'm going to let you rebut what you think I know is absurd. The mechanism is you're going to see the bailout of the insurance industry. Because Obamacare has now set up a system where insurance companies can no longer exist in this environment.

HILL: That's a compelling argument. It's just not true. The thing you're calling hope, the thing you're calling wishful thinking is -- I'm calling data. Right? There are people who are actually logging into the Web site and accessing it. There are millions of people signing up where before there were not. It's just a fact. Just this weekend, we saw 1.2 million people signing up. Doesn't that mean that we're turning a corner? CUPP: But Neera, we are halfway through this enrollment period. We're past the rocky roll-out. Now we're talking about implementing this.

NEERA TANDEN, HELPED CRAFT OBAMACARE: Right.

CUPP: Does something in this law need to be changed for it to work more effectively?

TANDEN: So we actually are seeing a rapid increase in enrollment. So we have 500,000 people on the exchange in December. If you actually tracked what happened in Massachusetts, when Massachusetts passed its law under Mitt Romney, we are way ahead of the sign-ups that Massachusetts had at this same time.

So I'm actually excited about the chance of talking about all these people who have insurance. And the fact is, the Republicans in the next election are going to be talking about taking away people's health insurance.

We already have 4 million people signed up through the Affordable Care Act, through Medicaid, through the exchanges, getting private health insurance, and the Children's Health Insurance Program.

We're going to have something we haven't had in years, which is Republicans talk about repeal. It's actually taking away benefits from people. And I think that will be a good debate for us to have.

CAIN: You know, Neera, you and Marc have now both used the term "signups." And you've touted the number of "signups" over the past month and over the last several days. It's a curious term you keep using, "signups."

TANDEN: Enrolled. OK. Use the term enrolled.

CAIN: Fine, enrolled. We'll use your term. Obamacare's ultimate goal is to deliver health insurance to Americans, and ultimately, beyond that, to deliver health care to Americans. If it's true what you say that hundreds of thousands of Americans have signed up -- by the way, your goal is 7 million. You've got a month or two left to get to that number.

TANDEN: Four months. We have four months to get to that number.

CAIN: And you are way behind. But again, signups. That doesn't mean people send in checks. That means they selected a plan at most. It doesn't mean they actually have been in communication with an insurance company or are receiving false data. You guys are using a unique term, signups, to paint what you think is a rosy picture. If that were true, if the picture you're both painting is true, President Obama wouldn't be delaying the deadline day after day after day.

TANDEN: OK. Let's talk about the delay of the deadline. The delay today is just saying, just like we say for every other program, if you're in line tonight, you'll get health-care insurance. We're not going to stop you at midnight. If you're -- if you're processing your claim, we're going to do this. This is like people acting, trying to get health insurance. We should -- we should reward them.

CAIN: Starting December 1, went to December 15. Now it was December 23, and now it's moved to December 24? Why have you had to move it three times?

TANDEN: Right, all designed to get people covered for health insurance. That's exactly what this is all about. I don't know -- I don't know why it's a negative to you. I guess what I'm saying is we have 500,000 people who have health insurance. As a conservative, I wish you'd applaud that instead of trying to insure that people lose their health insurance.

CAIN: I appreciate you say you have half a million people signed up.

TANDEN: Enrolled.

CAIN: What I see is a net negative of 4 million. You kicked 5 million plus off of their plans and now you have to make up that ground.

TANDEN: N. That's absolutely false. Five million people weren't kicked off their plans. There's 500,000 people. If you look at the data, 500,000 people, you have actually people who will not have a better plan.

We're seeing now data that shows that people though they -- who were getting kicked off their plan have better plans on the exchange. We're seeing stories every day.

CAIN: How many people didn't get kicked off their plans?

TANDEN: No, they've got -- they have -- they've lost their coverage, and they have a better plan where they pay less.

CAIN: So they lost their coverage is what we call it when we get kicked off their plans.

HILL: You're saying the same thing. You're saying they're off their plans, but onto new plans.

TANDEN: Onto better plans. And the exchange -- the big problem we had is that HealthCare.gov didn't work. So people couldn't see there are better options. Now, people are seeing, and you hear story after story about people who are saving thousands of dollars. That's something you should celebrate instead of trying to wrest that health care out of their hands.

HILL: Will, if the numbers are clearly increasing, isn't that a sign that we're turning a corner? If more people are enrolled and are signing up, whatever language you use, isn't that a sign for success?

CAIN: Guys, I'm sorry, but you seem to be living in a dreamland. I assume it's driven by wishfulness, but you started out this program -- S.E. started out this program, 63 percent of Americans think that their health-care costs are going to go up. Forty-two percent think Obamacare is going to be -- make them worse off in their lives. And you point to a few hundred thousand people who clicked on a Web site? Not that sent payment, not received interest.

CUPP: Sounds like an alternate reality. It really does. And let's look at some more numbers. We talked about that number.

Sixty percent of women not into this bill. That's up from 54 in November, despite the president's push to moms just last week. Sixty- four percent of men oppose this law. In California, you only have 20 percent of the young people signed up. You need between 30 and 40. In Kentucky, it's the same.

TANDEN: What you just said is the perfect number. That's what the target is.

CUPP: It's not the perfect number. You need 2.7 million --

TANDEN: Yes.

CUPP: -- young healthy people to sign up to make this law affordable. You are nowhere close.

HILL: Let me jump in a bit. One of the things -- one of the things you all have offered -- and by you all I mean Republicans -- is critique, and not a lot of solution.

One solution that's been offered is to open this up to the free market. The challenge of opening up to the free market is that things like preexisting conditions may not get covered for people, that these efficiency may not work out for the most vulnerable people. How do you reconcile that?

CAIN: The solutions question is a great one. And you and I have had this before, Marc. The problem is we're pulling in opposite directions. Neera and I pull in opposite directions of what we think ultimately delivers the best health care for Americans.

I believe a free market does, because what you can do is actually what President Obama has chosen to do in the last couple days, and that is allow people to buy catastrophic insurance plans. That is insurance plans that allow you, if you get hit by a bus or you get cancer, to have coverage, and everything else -- from knee surgeries to elbow surgeries to you get an infection -- you buy with a price mechanism competitive of the regular free market.

HILL: What about the preexisting condition? What about the person who, because of market efficiencies, can't get their preexisting condition covered? What happens to them?

CAIN: Preexisting conditions are a tough conundrum, because they cannot live in the same environment with the definition of insurance. And eventually, we have to get to what is the definition of insurance? It is designed to mitigate something that has not yet happened. Preexisting conditions have already happened. What you're talking about really is just delivering free health care to those people.

CUPP: I have a photo I want to show you guys before we go to break. We have seen some very desperate and silly and, I think, sometimes even offensive attempts to sell Obamacare around the country. You have those "Ho-surance" and "Bro-surance" ads out of Colorado. You've got Democrats leaving these brochures out at gay nightclubs. We just had an ad marketing Obamacare to gay -- to gay consumers.

What I don't understand is if this is so great, why isn't it selling itself? Why do we see these absolutely ludicrous and desperate attempts at reaching every single person in every corner of the world to try and get onto this program?

TANDEN: I don't know, S.E. Cupp. It looks like Apples are pretty good. Apple still spend $50 million to $100 million selling them. You sell things to people so that they understand what they're getting.

That's why the insurers --

CUPP: You've had three years.

TANDEN: Yes, right now is the time that you get coverage. That's why insurers are actually spending tens of millions of dollars trying to get people covered, because they actually know that this will work, that there is a market out there. If there was no market, they wouldn't spend the money, but they know there's a market; they know there is a demand. People want health insurance. There's actually -- these premiums are coming in lower.

And the fact is that this plan -- these plans are actually working, because people -- there's a demand for them.

You know what I think is fascinating? We have -- the Affordable Care Act is a market, right? People gets subsidies, and then they can go on the exchange and choose the health insurance they want. That's precisely why Governor Romney and the Heritage Foundation supported these plans in Massachusetts, and that's why I think it's interesting -- that's not true -- it's not.

CAIN: The prices, the coverage, every aspect of it. And you guys have compared yourself to Steve Jobs and Apple so many times, it should be embarrassing. You must recognize you have a problem. That's the only way you're ever going to fix it.

CUPP: OK. I am -- I am confident that the Democrats are going to have a tough time next year with this, but Republicans have some problems, too. Next I want to ask my friend Will Cain, conservative to conservative, how can we involve some -- avoid some of the pitfalls ahead?

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

HILL: Welcome back. In the CROSSFIRE tonight, Neera Tanden and Will Cain.

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi assured reporters today that the Affordable Care Act would not be a political problem in the next few months. In reality, it's unlikely that Obamacare will be a plus for Democrats any time soon, but eventually, people are going to stop worries about Web sites and start focusing on economic issues, like Washington's failure to raise the minimum wage and extend unemployment benefits. And that's where Republicans will find themselves back in the same dangerous hole and the target of ads like this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So to the 1.3 million Americans losing benefits, merry Christmas from the GOP. It's wrong to leave more than a million Americans behind.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HILL: If Republicans remain tone deaf to America's working people, then Nancy Pelosi is right: Democrats have nothing to worry about.

Will, I know you disagree with everything I just said, but at least you can concede that Republicans are overplaying their hands by ignoring these economic issues and just assuming Obamacare is going to save the day for them.

CAIN: Republicans have been talking about the economic issues of our country for the past three, five years, ever since the recession of 2008 and through Obama's tenure. We've been talking about it for --

HILL: Let me be more specific. Because talking about the economic issues by cutting taxes for the wealthy is not exactly what I mean. I'm talking about the idea of raising a federal minimum wage, creating a living wage for people. I'm talking about the idea of extending unemployment benefits. Two things that are on the table right now.

CAIN: Let's be honest. These are not economic solutions. These aren't even economic arguments we want to have. The truth is everyone knows, you want to dismiss with an economic argument quickly, if you raise the price of something you get less of it. You raise the price of this phone, you sell less of them. You raise the price of labor, you get less of it. That's your minimum wage argument.

The truth is this is a political argument. You want to pivot to talking not about Obamacare, but accusing Republicans of hating poor people.

HILL: And that, sir, is why I'm saying Democrats have nothing to worry about in 2014. I wish -- I thought you guys would have learned that lesson before. The majority of Americans want these increases, the majority of even the Tea Party, the extreme wing of the Republican Party wants this.

CUPP: Why are Republicans getting blamed for this unemployment insurance? Democrats passed this law, the president signed the law. Why are Republicans in the crosshairs over that?

HILL: Because there's so much -- there seems to be Republican opposition to this.

TANDEN: Yes, they opposed putting it in the budget agreement. That's why the Republicans are being blamed for it. CUPP: Democrats made it happen. They needed Democrat votes to pass it. The president signed it into law. Why isn't it a pox on both their houses?

TANDEN: Because the Democrats pushed for it in the budget negotiations.

CUPP: Democrats are nicer people.

(CROSSTALK)

TANDEN: No, it's Paul Ryan and --

HILL: Since you brought it up.

TANDEN: Paul Ryan opposed it. The House Republican leadership opposed putting it in on the budget deal. That's why they're being blamed for it.

CUPP: Look, income inequality is a serious issue. I'm glad the president is finally addressing it. He virtually ignored it for four years and the income inequality gap has widened under this president. But it doesn't bring people to the polls.

Are you telling me Democrats will run on raising the minimum wage? That's the big idea?

TANDEN: Absolutely.

CUPP: I hope so. I hope you're right.

(CROSSTALK)

TANDEN: Absolutely. You know, Republicans, 70 percent of Republicans nationally support it, 70 percent support it in Arkansas, in Kentucky. Look at the state polls.

There's economic populism flowing in those Southern states, those conservative districts, and it's working against Republicans. That's why Allison Grimes is campaigning on it. Michelle Nunn is --

CUPP: Allison Grime is going to win?

TANDEN: She's winning. She's doing very well. She's right now, even in the polls, isn't she?

CUPP: She's not going to win, Neera, c'mon.

TANDEN: Look, I think you should take note of someone who's even in the polls against the minority leader in the Senate.

CUPP: I thought the point is to win, right? You guys want to win in 2014. You want to keep the Senate.

TANDEN: Yes.

CUPP: Maybe pick up some House seats.

TANDEN: My overall point is this is a popular issue amongst Republicans. I'd say to your arguments economic data after economic data shows that when we raise wages, people can buy and consume more. It's a simple concept.

(CROSSTALK)

TANDEN: So people have more money to actually purchase. We have looked at states that have raised minimum wage. Their unemployment has gone down because --

HILL: Hold on a second.

CAIN: The simple rebuttal, Neera, is why don't you raise the minimum to $50 an hour then?

TANDEN: Because we're just looking at today data points of what works. So, let's start with $10. See, if that works, and that's why --

(CROSSTALK)

HILL: You haven't answered the initial question, right? Which was -- if this is the popular consensus of everyday American people on both sides of the aisle, will Republicans lose ground in 2014 by not taking that position?

CAIN: No, I'll answer your political question and then Neera's economic question. But the question of whether or not this will work politically, I agree with S.E. If you guys had decided you want to adopt the Bill de Blasio, mayor of New York City, Elizabeth Warren, senator of Massachusetts, if Massachusetts and New York City are your model no national politics, I wish you luck, my friend.

CUPP: In an off-year --

CAIN: To your economic point --

TANDEN: Neither one of them are campaigning on --

(CROSSTALK)

CAIN: To the economy point you bring up, in the end, I ask you, do you want to raise minimum wage to $50 an hour. You said data points and there's --

TANDEN: Yes, let's start with $10.

CAIN: Let me just suggest this, there's a thread that ties all our conversations took. From Obamacare, to the minimum wage, to inequality, is that you want the American people, and me and S.E. at this table, to grant you the power to, give you, to -- to weighing down to your arrogance that you know the right price of labor, you know how much people should make inequality, and after we've watched you for the last three years mess up the health care market by dictating prices and coverage, you want you to act on the heels of that?

TANDEN: You know what I want -- my only response to that is we have a growing income inequality, we have declining mobility. Maybe your answer is just let everything be as it is. But I think Americans want solutions. A simple solution is a federal minimum wage to insure there's some fairness, if you work hard, 40 hours a week, you should not be resigned to poverty. That I thought was a --

HILL: Will, do you believe there's no room economically for a federal minimum wage increase? Not at all? Forget the $10 mark. Are you saying it doesn't make any economic sense to raise the federal minimum wage?

CAIN: I am absolutely libertarian on minimum wage. I think market should dictate the price of labor, like they have officially done for every other aspect of our society.

CUPP: The federal wage makes no sense because cost of living changes from area to area, from region to region, making $10 an hour in New York is different than making $10 an hour in Topeka.

But I can't let you go Will without asking you this question, because we talk about it earlier. I want to talk about the GOP. And I think we do have a real problem.

Earlier this year, Chris Christie seemed to scold Rand Paul in a speech he gave in Boston. He basically said, we're not a debating society. We've got to win elections.

I think that is the GOP debate of the next year. Are we for principles and purity or are we for winning elections? Which do you think is going to win out?

CAIN: You know, William M. Buckley once said, the goal in every election is to vote for the most conservative candidate available to you. So, the answer, S.E., has to be both. And you and I talked about this off-set. I've heard you talk about it on air.

Mike Lee put this perfectly, when we said our goals should not be to identify heretics in our party. Our goal should be to identify converts.

CUPP: Right.

CAIN: At the end of this, Marc will probably with me on everything, and Neera a few things.

(LAUGHTER)

HILL: If you take that approach, though, right, if you take that approach, don't you end up with a GOP that simply ignores the economic issue that we just talked about? That decides -- do you know what I mean? I'm worried that ultimately the GOP won't take the right position on this.

CAIN: Marc, the goal of the GOP on economics is to find yourself on the most tried and true mechanism of overall growth for everyone in society. And that is to embrace the concept of free market. Not to enable the bureaucrats and politicians who know better the price of labor, or exactly how much everyone should make, but to give it to -- again, the one mechanism that has lifted human beings from poverty to wealth in society, in history, and that is capitalism.

HILL: I'm so excited that you have that position. 2014 is going to be awesome. Just saying.

TANDEN: The same arguments where you used to oppose the deal, which you clearly don't support because you don't support the federal minimum wage. And I think an argument is --

(CROSSTALK)

TANDEN: Let's just have a balance approach to these things.

CUPP: All right. Stay here.

Next, the final question for both of our guests.

We also want you at home to weigh on today's "Fireback" question. Do you think Obamacare will be the biggest issue of the 2014 midterm elections? Tweet yes or no using #crossfire. We'll have the results after the break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CUPP: We're back with Neera Tanden and Will Cain.

Now, it's time for the final question.

Neera, I know you're optimistic that immigration reform can happen this year. And the president sounded bullish on it as well. Are Democrats willing to accept an immigration reform that does not include a pathway to citizenship?

TANDEN: No, and I don't think they should. I hope that we'll have a bill on the House floor, after -- during the Republican primaries, after the Republican primaries, it seems like people are more interested in the House Republican caucus. And taking that up after the primaries.

But I hope there will be a real conference on this. Now, I think the path to citizenship is really popular. So, it should be 60 percent of the American people, 55 percent to 60 percent of independents support it.

So I think it should be in the time bill. And I think Republicans would do well to support a path to citizenship because that's what's really energizing Latino voters and to expand their base. I think that would be something that they should be interested in.

HILL: Will, the president says he's not going to negotiate on this debt ceiling this time. He's just not going to do it. He said it's all about dead. Republicans are preparing the things they want to negotiate about.

Do you guys learn a lesson from the last standoff?

CAIN: You know, the lesson politically, and I don't want to get too involved in the nuts and bolts of polling and politics, but the Republicans won on debt ceiling, and they did in 2011, and they lose on shutdowns, as they did in the fall of this year. Politically, that's how the public looks it. You can fight over the debt ceiling. You cannot fight over a shutdown.

I would tell you this, as an economic issue -- I do not think the debt ceiling should be used as leverage to extract with probably going to end up being minimal demands. It has huge uncertainty and affects on markets worldwide. And I think, in the end, I'm for economic growth.

CUPP: An agreement there?

TANDEN: I agree.

HILL: We all agree with economic growth.

TANDEN: I agree. I'm not negotiating with that.

CAIN: What did I tell you during the last break? They'd agree with me.

HILL: Everybody supports economic growth.

CUPP: There's a whole host of other issues that President Obama laid out in his inaugural address -- climate change, gun control, what if any of that can get done? It seems like he's had a tough time with this.

TANDEN: Well, the president has a climate action plan, which he put, which it works a lot through executive actions. And, you know, I think, they have to, actually. That's going to be, there are going to be rules coming out from the EPA, et cetera. That's going to be a management challenge for him, and I hope it's one that's successfully done.

CUPP: Why can't he pass the Keystone Pipeline, right? Am I right?

CAIN: Yes, you're right.

(CROSSTALK)

CAIN: S.E. and Marc, he's not going to be able to do anything in 2014 beyond try as he can --

HILL: Not immigration, not Keystone, nothing?

CAIN: Nothing, except through executive action, executive orders. He has bungled it because of Obamacare. It has ruined his legislative capital. And he's going to spend the year trying to fix what is an unfixable problem, Obamacare,

CUPP: OK. Thanks to Neera Tanden and Will Cain and my co-host tonight, Marc Lamont Hill.

Go to Facebook or Twitter to weigh in on our "Fireback" question. Do you think Obamacare will be the biggest issue of the midterm elections?

Right now, 61 percent of you say yes, 39 percent say no.

The debate continues online at CNN.com/crossfire, as well as Facebook and Twitter.

From the left, I'm Marc Lamont Hill.

CUPP: From the right, I'm S.E. Cupp. Join us next time for another edition of CROSSFIRE.

"ERIN BURNETT OUTFRONT" starts right now.


Obama's Look At 2013; What's Ahead for Obama in 2014?

Aired December 20, 2013 - 18:28   ET

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.


(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ANNOUNCER: Tonight on CROSSFIRE. He's at an all-time low in the polls.

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: My polls have gone up and down a lot.

ANNOUNCER: His agenda has stalled in Congress.

OBAMA: I'm going to keep at it.

ANNOUNCER: So what about next year?

OBAMA: I think 2014 needs to be a year of action.

ANNOUNCER: On the left, Van Jones. On the right Newt Gingrich. In the CROSSFIRE, Penny Lee, a Democratic strategist, and John Feehery, a Republican strategist.

Has the president bottomed out? What's ahead in 2014? Tonight, in CROSSFIRE.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWT GINGRICH, CO-HOST: Welcome to CROSSFIRE. I'm Newt Gingrich on the right.

VAN JONES, CO-HOST: And I'm Van Jones on the left. In the CROSSFIRE tonight, we've got two political strategists from both political parties.

Now look, tough year for the president, but he sure picked a great day to hold a press conference. Today we learned that the economy is actually coming back stronger a than anybody thought. It turns out in the third quarter, the U.S. economy grew by a smoking hot four percentage points. Consumer spending way up, housing construction way up, business investment is way up, unemployment is down, and so are the gas prices. And the stock market closed at all-time high just this afternoon.

Now, the president has taken his lumps, especially over Obama care, but today is a good day to give him his due. He's brought us back sis his predecessor wrecked the economy. And if these numbers hold up, I think Santa Claus is going to bring President Obama a wonderful 2014.

GINGRICH: Wonderful to see the spirit of Christmas descend over you and hope that the president will now receive this.

Now, the biggest thing happening good in the economy is the explosion in oil and gas capability, all of it on private land, despite cutting back on federal production. And the fact is that that breakthrough is lowering the cost of centering for manufacturing. So all of the things the private sector is doing, despite the Obama policies, are actually helping the president. It's a comment on how great the American people are, that they can rise above all this.

JONES: We will discuss this, I'm sure, as the show goes on. I have a very different view. I'm sure you can imagine.

GINGRICH: Shocking.

In the CROSSFIRE, Democratic strategist Penny Lee and Republican strategist John Feehery. And Penny, let me start with you.

I watched the president's press conference today with great interest. Obviously, he's now at 41 percent, dramatically below either President Reagan or, for that matter, President Clinton at this stage.

He's going to Hawaii, really, I think to -- I hope he's going there both to rest with his family, but also to think about what are the lessons, how does he come back and try to make this coming year the kind of year that Van wants.

GINGRICH: If he were to call you, what are the two or three biggest things you would represent to the president in 2014?

PENNY LEE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: Well, first of all, I don't know necessarily that we need to go so big. I think what you saw was really an appreciation -- the stock market rally and other things -- when you actually got a small budget passed. Just little, incremental things right now I think is what we need to be done just to show the American people that Washington can actually work.

First and foremost, first on his agenda is going to have to be the health care. It is out there. It is going to be from January to March. Everybody's still going to be focused on it and focused on the numbers. Whether or not that's the right indication of how it will be successfullong-term, don't know, but that's what everyone is going to be focused on.

He does need to be able to come back and show that something is working, that something that he has said will be -- actually come true, as far as it's related to health care. Because right now every day you hear a new story.

Last night, there were some changes to make sure that you could get catastrophic change. That's a difference. That's when people think maybe it's not all that I want it to be. He needs to have some points on the board and win, especially on health care.

GINGRICH: I know you just expressed earlier real concern for Senator Reid. You might want to take a minute to express. LEE: Sure. And I just want to say hearts and prayers are out to Senator Reid for a speedy recovery. I think he's doing well. It was a temporary lapse he has, but he is a strong fighter, and someone that continues to fight every day. And I know will be in the Senate going forward. So just my thoughts and prayers are with him. Thank you.

JONES: Very good. Thank you for raising that.

Now, we're talking about 2014. Everybody wants to talk about Obama care. Everybody wants to talk about the president. But the Republicans actually have some choices to make, too. And I'm curious from your point of view, they have to make a decision. Do they want to go in the direction that Paul Ryan has opened up: more bipartisanship, showing they can govern or do they want to be more obstructionist, more belligerent. What would you advise the Republican Party to do in 2014?

JOHN FEEHERY, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: They accomplished a big thing by having this budget agreement. So the government is not going to close down. I thought it was good for the House Republicans especially, which is a huge victory for Republicans. I thought this Ryan budget was good for the House, Republicans especially. And that's why so many House Republicans voted for it.

I think on the debt ceiling, I think what they've really got to push for is a year delay on Obama care, the whole thing. The reason they haven't pushed for it is I think it's something that the president is going to accept. The is the one thing. The person -- the best thing for the president to have is have Obama care not happen for another year.

JONES: So you think the president -- you think the president will accept the year? This is an interesting theory.

LEE: First of all, I think the president was emphatically clear. Again, there's going to be no negotiations on the debt ceiling once again.

FEEHERY: Listen, that is the single -- that is the one thing that polls the worst, when you say, "I will not negotiate on something."

LEE: John, we have been through this debate time and time again on the health care, on the repeal. There is no replacement the Republicans have put out there. And what the American people don't want -- what they don' to go back to what we had.

FEEHERY: The health care plan is collapsing. We've got the president going willy-nilly, changing things all over the place. It's so confusing. The best thing right now: give it a year, let them sort it out, and hope that -- for the Democrats, that's the best thing to do.

GINGRICH: Can we just play the president for a minute? Because I was fascinated, and I thought it was so different from how Bill Clinton would have handled it. And if we could look at Brianna Keilar asked him a question, and the intensity of his response I thought was very telling. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Will you negotiate with House Republicans on the debt ceiling?

OBAMA: Oh, Brianna, you know the answer to this question. Why should I? No, we're not going to negotiate for Congress to pay bills that it has accrued.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GINGRICH: What I was struck by was two things: one, as John just said, not going to negotiate is not exactly the signal you want to send.

But second, Clinton would have said something like "I'm confident coming off this recent Patty Murray/Paul Ryan deal, we're going to find a positive way to work together, and I don't even want to think negative thoughts."

I was just very struck that it was very blunt, very direct, and I think very negative. Don't you think that's sort of a mistake?

LEE: This is something that -- nothing that is not new. This is a position that he has taken from his first time, the first time the debt ceiling has ever come up. So this has just been his position. I don't -- I don't wonder why it isn't a surprise to anybody, because this is not something that he has ever backed down from. Now, has there been negotiations that have been done between the House and the Senate...

FEEHERY: The problem with that, Penny, is...

LEE: The president has made emphatically clear he is not going to negotiate.

FEEHERY: But the problem is that he did negotiate. He has negotiated. He negotiated last time. They got a deal. Last time there was a debt limit. There's always negotiations.

Newt, you know this. When you're a speaker, you negotiate to get the votes. Every time you have a debt limit, you have to get the votes.

JONES: Let me ask you, though, I think he answered the question the way he answered it the way -- for a reason.

FEEHERY: I get that. I agree.

JONES: And I'm curious, from your point of view. In some ways wouldn't the best thing in the world would be for there to be a huge fight and for Republicans to get back into a posture of threatening to shut down the government? Doesn't that -- I mean, give the president some credit here. Do you think the Republicans will take the bait and actually fight him?

FEEHERY: I think... JONES: Please give us another shutdown. Please.

FEEHERY: I think the president -- I think the president is trying to provoke the Republicans. And I hope that -- Listen, I think that you have to stay to your principles and I think you've got to find common ground for the idea that you're never going to negotiate is completely false.

JONES: You say -- more than that, you're talking about the debt ceiling? Full faith and credit, right?

LEE: And full faith and credit of the United States. So people even really -- Republicans even realize that is a risky proposition.

JONES: Do you think Republicans -- do you think Republicans will be good enough to us to threaten the full faith and credit for us in this quarter?

LEE: Sure. Sure. Absolutely. Look what Ted Cruz did the last time. He threatened to shut down over the complete repeal...

GINGRICH: Let me make John's point for the second. The fact is in the end, after saying, "No, no, never, never," the president last time accepted a package out of the Senate that reopened the government by tying it all together.

Now, I'm just curious, this is sort of the president's red line No. 600. I mean, you know, how often does -- in your mind, how often does the president -- remember we're never going to budge on the mandate, except yesterday, which we'll get to later on, we budged all over the place. And you go down this list of things: We're not going to budge on Syria, but we're not going to bunch on Iran. Isn't there a point when people start shrugging and going, this is all posturing?

LEE: They do, but at the same time there are some read deadlines that do come up. I mean, there are some real consequences without action, and so that's what the president has been playing to, is the fact that whether or not you negotiate and you put together -- and the Senate and House end up putting together a package to actually get the economy moving or avoiding shutdowns or not putting the full faith, that occurs.

But the president's point is to make sure that he has a very strong stance, and he's not -- you know, the threat of not being able to back away from it actually makes the House moot.

JONES: You agree with that?

FEEHERY: The president is in a far different spot than six months ago or four months ago. Fact of the matter is, his credibility has been compromised, because he said," You can keep your health care if you want it. Everyone knows that was the biggest lie of the year. So he's got to be able to say, listen, I need to reach a deal here.

JONES: We're going to fight about that after the break, I think. GINGRICH: Let me just say, it's December 20. You may need to finish your Christmas shopping and sign up for Obama care. But don't worry. The administration just put out 14 excuses you can use to not sign up. I'll share my favorite brand-new excuse, next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

GINGRICH: Welcome back. In the CROSSFIRE tonight, Perry [SIC] lee and John Feehery -- Penny Lee and John Feehery.

This afternoon President Obama summarized the roll-out of his biggest domestic program, the Obama care Web site. Listen to the president.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: The fact is that it didn't happen in the first month, first six weeks, in a way that was at all acceptable. And since I'm in charge, obviously, we screwed it up.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GINGRICH: For those of you who couldn't sign up, the Obama administration is giving you a last-minute Christmas gift. The government's list of 14 excuses to avoid Obama care for one more year.

Here's my favorite. It's so vague it could cover anything. Quote, "You experienced another hardship in obtaining health insurance," unquote. Now I'll let you figure out how they're going to audit that.

We were wondering how big a truck you could drive through Obama care. With that excuse, the whole just got even bigger, and an entire convoy of trucks could go through.

Now, Penny, I know you're a loyalist, and you're an optimist, and you're positive, but isn't it a fact that around January 1, we're just going to be in the middle of a giant mess? You're going to have lawyers advertising if you went to the hospital and you didn't have insurance and it wasn't your fault, call us for a free consultation. You're going to have members of Congress getting calls.

The whole thing is just -- and there are constitutional questions about whether or not you can capriciously lift this mandate for group A, but not group B? Isn't this just a practical, non-ideological mess?

LEE: I don't think the staff around the White House today wanted the headline coming out of that press conference to be "We screwed it up." That is definitely not something that they wanted and not something anybody as a loyalist wanted to see happen, either.

At the same time, I do think that we are in a long game here, and we are just now still in the first inning. And the president, as I said earlier, the president does need to get some runs. He needs to score some hits. He needs to make this some impact and actually have something that he said come true. And so for that, they need some stabilization. They need something to really actually start to function. A lot of it is functioning. You have half a million people that -- I mean, 500,000 people have signed up for it now, and you have a lot of people benefit. Eighty-five percent -- the president said 85 percent of the American people have benefited from some type of form of Obama care.

JONES: Doesn't this -- I mean, part of my problem with this -- I'll take this to you, John -- is this year we go more rooting for failure. It seems that the Republicans just can't say enough bad things about this bill.

But I don't know how long the American people are going to stay with this story when the economy is really where people's hearts are. I'm going to change the subject for once to something you guys don't have a thousand talking points cued on. And I want to get your best listen (ph) on this. What about the minimum wage? I think you guys in 2014 are going to be in deep trouble, because it's a very popular idea now to raise the minimum wage among conservatives and Tea Party members. What will happen to your party and your root-for-failure strategy on Obama care when the country follows this president on minimum wage?

FEEHERY: Well, let me tell you how the Republicans will respond. It wasn't rooting for failure on Obamacare. It was warning of failure on Obamacare.

JONES: Great talking point. You got it in there. You got it in there. You got it in there.

FEEHERY: Listen, you know, I remember when Newt was speaker and he was kind of talking about minimum wage. It can be very, very popular.

The fact is, it actually hurts job creation for people who most need it, which are kids, getting kids --

(CROSSTALK)

JONES: Got louder, louder. Keep saying it. It's not true and it's not popular.

FEEHERY: Well, it is true. But, politically, it's a dangerous thing. And I understand that.

I think for the Republicans, they have to talk about a poverty agenda, which Paul Ryan has been talking about. They also have to broadly talk about trying to get the economy growing yet, which the president never talks about. And then they also have to talk about -- they also have to talk about how Obamacare is hurting job creation --

JONES: But let me narrow down back on minimum wage. I thought that was great, what you just did. But with minimum wage in particular, when this president steps forward and says he wants to give America a race, because you guys don't want to help Americans who aren't working, he's going to say fine, how about the ones who are. Aren't you in a trap here? Because if you say no in Congress, guess what we do? We go to the states in the middle of the midterm. We put it on ballot measures across the country. We win either way on minimum wage. What are you guys going to do?

FEEHERY: Well, I think the single easiest way you can screw up job creation is by putting a lot more mandates that's been proven. And, listen, I know that it polls well, but what polls even better is to get jobs created. And the president needs to focus on that.

GINGRICH: Let me, I mean, I don't want to distort your wonderful moment here, but I am curious, you know, Penny, when you -- the president was talking about in a positive way, certainly the numbers in the last quarter are moderately encouraging. We also have a record number of people on food stamps. The president himself in the middle of telling us how great the economy was, whether or not we need a 1,200,000 people who need unemployment compensation that wasn't extended, you have a record number of people on disabilities.

Isn't it a fact that the depth of this problem was so real and so deep that it's going to take a long time at the pace we're currently on to get anywhere near a full employment --

LEE: Nobody ever promised that we're going to be in a hockey stick recovery. No one ever did. And we always knew that it was going to be slow and steady. Would we all look to see it like the last quarter, the economic growth continue like it did last quarter? Absolutely.

And as the president alluded to, he feels like 2014, we're on to something that the economy actually could get chugging at a greater pace. So, I agree with you in the fact that we do need -- John's point, that we do need to continue to grow on the jobs front. But I don't think in study after study has shown that minimum wage increases, and we're only talking just a little -- you know, $2, up to $10 right now, and most of the states are already at that level if not above.

And it doesn't decrease the job security, but it allows people to not having to be so reliant on public welfare. Public welfare means the safety needs, food stamps, unemployment benefits and the things (ph). So, they can expand it. So, that I think is something as Van was alluding to was good policy.

JONES: Let me tell you one more, I know you're going to get in, I can feel you. But let me just get one more good thing in here. Since Newt was beating up on my president about the gas prices now --

GINGRICH: Our president.

(LAUGHTER)

GINGRICH: The president of the United States. Come on, Van.

JONES: Fair enough.

FEEHERY: All of our president.

JONES: Bipartisanship and the Christmas spirit.

But I don't understand why, if gas prices were going up right now, you guys would be screaming, and yelling, saying, here we are, gas prices are coming down. Under this president, we're producing more energy. We're also more importantly on the green side, we're more efficient, we're actually wasting less, and we're seeing what happens when you get the supply up, the demand down.

Why are you cheerleading to this president with the gas exemption tax?

FEEHERY: What we're cheerleading for is the unbelievable help that the private sector has done. They are the ones who created this. It hasn't been the president.

The president has thrown every obstacle in the way.

JONES: I'm going to poke this little balloon right here. You know why fracking is taking off? Because America's government was smart enough to invest -- and you help on this -- smart enough to invest in the research and development to create that technology. It's been a public/private thing all the way in every advanced country, energy is public and private. And in this country, we don't have to drill on the White House lawn to bring gas.

FEEHERY: Why don't we all claim credit for the fact that the energy prices have gone down and we have energy security, which I think is a remarkable thing?

JONES: Good.

FEEHERY: But this is not the president's problem. The president's problem is, A, the stupid law he passed on Obamacare, which has really been killing jobs, and, B, the fact that he has not focused singlehandedly focused on job creation.

And with this thing, this economy is a disaster for so many people.

(CROSSTALK)

LEE: -- that there was a stimulus package that actually that did create job. We were losing at rate of 800,000 prior and you're now continuing to grow to 200,000 (ph).

So, to say that he is not about job creation is completely false.

FEEHERY: He is not focused --

JONES: What can he propose that you would vote for? He tried -- he went with all Republican ideas and you guys tried to down (ph) with his last jobs bill.

GINGRICH: The Keystone Pipeline.

(CROSSTALK) FEEHERY: How about corporate tax reform that brings money from overseas and really invest in jobs? Will he do that?

(CROSSTALK)

JONES: Hey, here's what we know --

GINGRICH: The Canadians just announced that they are going to build the pipeline to Vancouver and they are going to ship the oil to China because they're sick and tired of the U.S. government --

JONES: But the provinces are going to oppose it. It's going to be held up in court there because Canadians know what tar sand is. They know it's pipe eating, water fouling, planet cooking goo, and they don't want it and we shouldn't want it either. It is only going to China. We should have a show about that. However --

(LAUGHTER)

GINGRICH: Wait a second. Let me ask you for a second --

LEE: Yes.

JONES: I think we have to do it on the way back out. Stay here.

Next, we're going to have the final question for both of our guests. We want to hear their New Year's resolutions for President Obama.

We also want you at home to weigh in on today's "Fireback" question. Will 2014 be better or worse for President Obama? You can tweet better or worse using #crossfire.

We're going to give you those results after this break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

GINGRICH: We're back with Penny Lee and John Feehery.

Now, it's time for the final question.

At today's news conference, CNN's Brianna Keilar asked President Obama for his New Year's resolution. Here is his not-so-serious answer.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: My New Year's resolution is to be nicer to the White House press corps.

(LAUGHTER)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GINGRICH: So our final question for both of you is, what New Year's resolution do you think the president should be making? And we'll give you as a strong supporter a first shot at this. LEE: Unlike me who will be about the diet and health, he does not need to lose any more weight. I would say, for the peace and tranquility of the Obama household, I would say no more selfies with world leaders on a state funeral.

(LAUGHTER)

JONES: I think that's pretty good.

GINGRICH: That's pretty good.

FEEHERY: I think he should resolve to appear at least once on "Duck Dynasty" if it is not canceled by A&E. Show himself as a bipartisan --

LEE: Happy, happy, happy.

JONES: Somebody finally raised "Duck Dynasty."

(LAUGHTER)

(CROSSTALK)

GINGRICH: I like that. There will be an immediate spike.

And his suggestion for the president to go on "Duck Dynasty" will suddenly go out on the tweet and Facebook resolutions.

JONES: Absolutely.

GINGRICH: But what's your resolution for the president?

JONES: I think somebody once told me where there's life, there is hope.

(LAUGHTER)

JONES: I think you should just keep hope alive. And hang in there.

No, honestly, I think you should be focusing on the minimum wage. And there's a growing sense in the country that the people who are working hard and falling behind and that America deserves a raise. I think if he picks that fight, it's a good fight for him and it's a good fight for the country.

What do you think?

GINGRICH: Look, I hope that he will slow down for the next few days, focus on his daughters and his wife, unwind. This is a killing job. It's a terribly hard job and I think it is very hard for presidents occasionally to let loose. Rejuvenate. Think and then come back with a new sense.

I really do think the most important thing the president could do in the next week is nothing. Just focus on his family. The country will still be here. And then come back with fresh energy and fresh ideas. That would be my point.

JONES: Well put, well put. The holiday season is already breaking out.

I want to thank Penny Lee and John Feehery.

Listen, you can go to Facebook or Twitter to weigh in on our "Fireback" question, will 2014 be a better or worse year for President Obama? Right now, 66 percent of you say better. 34 percent say worse. The debate will continue online at CNN.com/crossfire, as well as on Facebook and Twitter.

And I want you to be sure to join CROSSFIRE host S.E. Cupp tonight at 9:00 Eastern. She's going to be interviewing Glenn Beck. And they talk about Chris Christie. Only Glenn Beck would give this answer. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

GLENN BECK, RADIO HOST: Libertarianism is the future.

S.E. CUPP, CNN HOST: Yes.

BECK: And that is everybody be cool to each other. Everybody live responsibly. And live free.

CUPP: Well, that sounds really good. But let me ask you about -- let me ask you about the real world. Chris Christie is the real world.

BECK: That is the real world.

CUPP: Chris Christie is almost --

BECKEL: No, Chris Christie is a fat nightmare.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JONES: OK. So you can watch S.E.'s entire interview with Glenn Beck tonight at 9:00 Eastern on "PIERS MORGAN LIVE."

From the left, I'm Van Jones.

GINGRICH: From the right, I'm Newt Gingrich.

Join us Monday for another edition of CROSSFIRE.

"ERIN BURNETT OUTFRONT" starts right now.

